Algorithms
We use computers to do hundreds
of different tasks every day:
Things like searching the internet;
editing an image; or finding a route on a map.
But have you ever wondered how a computer
figures out how to do these things?
An algorithm is a step-by-step process
which tells a computer how to do a specific task.
But there can be many different
algorithms for the same problem,
kind of like how there can be many
different recipies for baking a cake.
But as we know,
some recipies can be a lot better than others.
So we're going to do a little experiment
to see if the same thing is true for algorithms.
Here we are in front of
the University of Canterbury Library.
About to start the great algorithms race.
Competing today we have:
Speedy Spencer, and Slowcoach Slade.
Their task is to run to the library,
and find this book by Knuth
amongst the millions of books in there.
First one to find it wins.
Are you ready? Go!
Spencer!
Speedy Spencer is off to a flying start;
he's searched dozens of books already.
He seems to be employing a Sequencial Search
algorithm, so he looks at the first book,
and then continues on and looks at each
individual book until he...
Where's he going?
He seems to know exactly what he's looking for.
Slade seems to be employing something like a
Binary Search algorithm as his strategy.
He's looked at a book at the center of the library,
and by looking at that one book,
he's realised that the book he's looking for
can't be in the first half.
So by making one query,
he's eliminated half of the books in the library.
He may be slow, but he's intelligent.
Spencer seems to have almost finished
his first shelf of books.
He's got a few thousand more to go though
before he finds the right book.
It's a bit like if he took
one of the world's fastest computers,
and gave it one of the world's worst algorithms.
Imagine if a fast engine like Google
returned results to you by searching through
every page on the internet one by one.
Now back to Slade, how are you going Slade?
SLADE: Exactly as I planned. I narrowed it down,
and it should be on this shelf.
You already know the book is on this shelf?
SLADE: This half of the shelf
BOZO: Excuse me!
Bozo?, are you searching for the book as well?
BOZO: Yep! I'm doing a Bozo Search.
How does that work?
BOZO: Well, I take a book,
and hopefully it's the right book.
But what if it isn't the right book?
BOZO: Well then, I'll go and look for another book.
Excuse me.
SLADE: Here it is!
Congratulations Slade, you've won!
Guys you can stop searching now.Guys.
Slade's found the book.
Guys you can stop searching now.
Slade's won.
Guys. Guys you can stop now.
[sigh]
So it looks like the algorithm you choose
can make a big difference,
particularly with large amounts of data.
You see, if the library had been twice the size,
it would take Speedy Spencer
twice as long to find the book. But Slowcoach Slade
would have only needed to check one extra book.
In this chapter, we'll be looking more
at what algorithms are used for,
and why it's important to choose the right one.
So Slowcoach Slade, if you were an algorithm
in a program I was writing.
I would be the happiest programmer alive.
Algorithms
SPENCER: Yes! Found it
Bozo? What are you reading?
BOZO: Oh, it's a book on Metaginetics
in Argentina and Peru.
SPENCER: Hmm, close enough.